# Cache Simulator
### Welcome!
I developed this project to demonstrate my understanding of cache memory and its role in improving C program performance. I've written a cache simulator to create a concise and effective program that simulates cache behavior.

### Purpose
My cache simulator is a tool that models how cache works. It's a nice way to visualize the efficiency of caches in computing. Although this simulator may seem technical, this project is really about improving how quickly and efficiently a computer can access data.

## How It Works
### Trace Files
The simulator uses trace files from the `traces` directory. These files, generated by a tool called `valgrind`, record how programs access memory. Here's an example command used to create a trace file:

```bash
valgrind --log-fd=1 --tool=lackey -v --trace-mem=yes ls -l
```

The trace files look like this:

```
I 0400d7d4,8
 M 0421c7f0,4
 L 04f6b868,8
 S 7ff0005c8,8
```

Each line represents a memory access, showing the type of access (`I` for instruction load, `L` for data load, etc.) and the memory address involved.

### Command-Line Interface
My simulator, which is in the file `csim.c`, imitates the behavior of these caches. It's run using the terminal, and it outputs statistics like the number of hits, misses, and evictions. Here's how you use it:

```bash
./csim-ref [-hv] -S <S> -K <K> -B <B> -p <P> -t <tracefile>
```

### Cache Organization
The simulator is flexible, able to work with various cache sizes and structures. It dynamically allocates memory, and I've implemented both FIFO (First-In, First-Out) and LRU (Least Recently Used) policies for cache eviction.

### Testing
I've tested my simulator against different benchmarks, all of which can be found in the `traces` folder. These tests include direct-mapped tests (K = 1), policy tests (check to see if LFU and FIFO work as expected), and size tests (cases that included memory accesses crossing a cache line and requiring access to different blocks)

To run these tests, I used the command:

```bash
$ ./grade
```

## Where to Start
Feel free to look at my `csim.c` file to see how I've approached this problem.  

I'm happy to share my learning journey and experiences in this area or discuss the strategies I used to design my cache simulator.

Please message me if you would like to talk or share your thoughts. Thank you for taking the time to explore my project!

Contact: [wntrinh@usc.edu](mailto:wntrinh@usc.edu)
